{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28240\viewh19000\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 "---"\
"Dataset: Compressed Mortality, 1999-2016"\
"Query Parameters:"\
"Year: 2016"\
"Group By: County"\
"Show Totals: True"\
"Show Zero Values: True"\
"Show Suppressed: True"\
"Standard Population: 2000 U.S. Std. Population"\
"Calculate Rates Per: 1,000"\
"---"\
"Help: See http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html for more information."\
"---"\
"Query Date: Jan 12, 2024 1:44:22 PM"\
"---"\
"Suggested Citation: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics. National Vital Statistics"\
"System, Mortality: Compressed Mortality File 1999-2016 on CDC WONDER Online Database, released June 2017. Data are from the"\
"Compressed Mortality File 1999-2016 Series 20 No. 2U, 2016, as compiled from data provided by the 57 vital statistics"\
"jurisdictions through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program. Accessed at http://wonder.cdc.gov/cmf-icd10.html on Jan 12, 2024"\
"1:44:22 PM"\
"---"\
Footnotes:\
"1. Data are not available for this area for all of the requested years. See Caveats below for more information."\
"---"\
Caveats:\
"1. Due to confidentiality constraints, death counts and rates are suppressed when the number of deaths is less than 10. Figures"\
"representing infant deaths and births have additional constraints for national and local data. More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Assurance of Confidentiality."\
"2. Death rates are flagged as Unreliable when the rate is calculated with a numerator of 20 or less. More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Unreliable."\
"3. About population figures for regions, divisions, states and counties: population figures for 1999 are from the 1990-1999"\
"series of bridged-race intercensal estimates of the July 1 resident population; population figures for 2000 and 2010 are"\
"bridged-race April 1 census counts; population figures for 2001-2009 are from the revised 2000-2009 series of bridged-race"\
"intercensal estimates of the July 1 resident population; and population figures for 2011-2015 are bridged-race postcensal"\
"estimates of the July 1 resident population, from the Vintage 2015 series released by NCHS on June 28, 2016."\
"4. The population figures used in the calculation of death rates for the age group 'under 1 year' are the estimates of the"\
"resident population that is under one year of age. More information: http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Age Group."\
"5. The populations used to calculate standard age-adjusted rates are documented here: More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#2000 Standard Population."\
"6. The method used to calculate age-adjusted rates is documented here: More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Age-Adjusted Rates."\
"7. Deaths for persons of unknown age are included in counts and crude rates, but are not included in age-adjusted rates."\
"8. Prince of Wales-Outer Ketchikan Census Area, Alaska (FIPS code 02201) data are available only for 1999-2013. For 2014 and"\
"beyond, death counts and population estimates for Prince of Wales-Outer Ketchikan Census Area Census Area are reported as Prince"\
"of Wales-Hyder Census Area (FIPS code 02198). Death counts and population estimates for this entity from multi-year requests,"\
"only reflect data from 1999 through 2013; for 2014 and beyond they have been set to zero. More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Prince of Wales-Outer Ketchikan Census Area."\
"9. Skagway-Hoonah-Angoon Census Area, Alaska (FIPS code 02232) data are available only for 1999-2013. For 2014 and beyond, death"\
"counts and population estimates for Skagway-Hoonah-Angoon Census Area are reported as Hoonah-Angoon Census Area(FIPS code 02105)"\
"and Skagway Municipality, (FIPS code 02230). Death counts and population estimates for this entity from multi-year requests,"\
"only reflect data from 1999 through 2013; for 2014 and beyond they have been set to zero. More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Skagway-Hoonah-Angoon Census Area."\
"10. Wrangell-Petersburg Census Area, Alaska (FIPS code 02280) data are available only for 1999-2013. For 2014 and beyond, death"\
"counts and population estimates for Wrangell-Petersburg Census Area are reported as Petersburg Borough/Census Area (FIPS code"\
"02195) and Wrangell City and Borough, (FIPS code 02275). Death counts and population estimates for this entity from multi-year"\
"requests, only reflect data from 1999 through 2013; for 2014 and beyond they have been set to zero. More information:"\
"http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Wrangell-Petersburg Census Area."\
"11. Carson City, Nevada (FIPS code 32510) data are shown separately from the adjacent counties for."\
"12. Baltimore city, Maryland (FIPS code 24510) and Baltimore County, Maryland (FIPS code 24005) data are reported separately."\
"13. St. Louis city, Missouri (FIPS code 29510) and St. Louis County, Missouri (FIPS code 29189) data are reported separately."\
"14. Bedford city, Virginia (FIPS code 51515) data are available only for 1999-2010. For 2011 and beyond, death counts and"\
"population estimates for Bedford city have been combined with Bedford County (FIPS code 51019). Death counts and population"\
"estimates for this entity from multi-year requests, only reflect data from 1999 through 2010; for 2011 and beyond they have been"\
"set to zero. More information: http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Bedford-Virginia."\
"15. Clifton Forge city, Virginia (FIPS code 51560) data are available only for 1999-2000. For 2001 and beyond, death counts and"\
"population estimates for Clifton Forge city have been combined with those for Alleghany county, Virginia (FIPS code 51005)."\
"Death counts and population estimates for this entity from multi-year requests, only reflect data from 1999 through 2000; for"\
"2001 and beyond they have been set to zero. More information: http://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cmf.html#Clifton Forge."}